In User Interface Hard Parts,
we're going to explore,
I think the most significant part of
most of our experience of computers,
of technology, that is through
a screen that we are able to type at,
to click, to swipe, to tap,
to change what we see.
And we are going to today build
out an understanding of those user
interfaces from scratch.
This is two simple goals to
user interface engineering.
One, display content on the screen
such that the user can see it.
And two, enable the user to go ahead and
actually change what they see.
It turns out that's it.
We'll finish goal one
within about 20 minutes.
Unfortunately, it turns out goal
two is profoundly difficult.
Enabling the user to change what they see,
turns out to be profoundly difficult.
However, we want to be able to
do that because user interfaces
are a vital part of the our
modern experience of technology.
And not least because I think we're
going through a kind of a Cambrian
explosion right now of technology.
Through sort of two parts, one I would
say is like the normalization of tech,
the rise of software engineering at the
center of everything that we experienced.
It was before centered around some of
the big tech firms where Google's is
water now.
We're in a time where we have
the JP Morgan's of this world hiring and
talking to the founder tech elevator
based here in the Midwest and
absolutely phenomenal program,
that they pay 600 engineers at JP Morgan.
This is the world we're moving to where
tech is at the center of everything we do.
On top of that,
we have our wonderful friend ChatGPT,
that is absolutely lining up, again,
a explosion in the amount of tech,
the amount of software that
is gonna be out there.
I think all of that is gonna lead to
a huge increase in the number of user
interfaces we're gonna need to be
building out, that is screens,
that allow us to interact with that
technology and change what we see and
change the state of that technology.
Okay, so in UI Hard Parts,
we're gonna explore four parts,
four hard parts of user
interface engineering.
One, is going to be understanding
how in the web browser this
particularly ad hoc developed
application creation environment.
How we're going to even build
the most minimal user interface?
We're gonna require in that
to understand JavaScript,
how it interplays with the C++
runtime where our DOM is happening,
where our event API's are defined.
We're gonna have to
understand webCoRE WebIDL.
A whole bunch of features just to even
build out the most minimal user interface.
Then in part two, we'll realize
that at any significant scale,
you're dealing with potentially 1000.
Any sales or sales had 1000s of pieces
of content displayed on the screen,
all of which the user can
interact with and change..
That is going to require some
restrictions on how we write our
code just to make our lives
more predictable and easier.
A vast amount of what we're doing in the
hard parts of user interface is not gonna
be intrinsically a kind of a truth.
Only really part one, building a minimal
user interface is gonna be a truth.
Beyond that it becomes moves by us.
Here's my first catchphrase of the day.
Moves not truths.
One, two, three.
>> Moves not truths.
>> Excellent, everything beyond
part one of hard parts is
gonna be moves not truths.
So efforts by us to make our
lives easier as developers and
part two, we're gonna introduce
one way data binding.
An effort to limit how we as users
can actually end up changing
what we see to just via
changing underlying data, and
then a single function is gonna pull
that data through and display it.
Part two will then allow us in
part three to actually present
in JavaScript a visual representation
of what is gonna show up on the page.
We're gonna start with HTML
almost before part one and
realize what a beautiful language it is.
For displaying content is
phenomenally intuitive.
Just because it's simple, doesn't mean
it's anything but phenomenally intuitive.
So we'll start there with HTML.
Once we get into JavaScript,
it's gonna be profoundly unintuitive
as to what shows up on the page, it will
not mirror at all what's in our code.
In part three of hard parts,
we're gonna build out a visual or
a virtual DOM that does mirror
what shows up in the page.
And then finally, in part four,
we're gonna realize that all
of these gains come at a cost,
the cost being performance.
And if we're gonna build out anything
that is sustainable at scale,
we're gonna need to introduce some
sort of efficiency measures, sorry,
one of which will be state hooks.
Another will be a diffing algorithm,
which is sort of clever code although
as will be very, not clever,
a very basic, a diffing algorithm that
is going to ensure that we're only
making changes to what the user sees
based on what actually changed.
All right, so here we go.
In UI Hard Parts we develop
an under the hood understanding of
building user interfaces
in the web browser.
There's me, there's my world,
there's my wonderful nephew,
Theodore, the lovely Theodore,
there's my sisters, and
here I think there's some
principles of engineering.
These are both we look for
in candidates for code Smith, and
what I think make just
long term great engineers.
So we have firstly, problem solving.
This is what we're really
centered on today.
If you can build out from scratch.
The underlying mental model of
what's happening in UI engineering,
then you can derive from that all sorts
of solutions to the new challenges that
you face in your work day to day.
Then we have our technical communication.
This is,
can I implement what your mental model,
myself via your verbal
communication of it, perfect.
Non technical communication
here is the empathetic and
supportive as every person
talks through their code here,
the endorsement of each
other of that verbalization.
And I think yes, in a sense,
we're building out and
under-the-hood understanding
of how UIs are built.
That's our JavaScript and
programming experience.